---
difficulty: Medium
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [729. My Calendar I](https://leetcode.com/problems/my-calendar-i)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>You are implementing a program to use as your calendar. We can add a new event if adding the event will not cause a <strong>double booking</strong>.</p>

<p>A <strong>double booking</strong> happens when two events have some non-empty intersection (i.e., some moment is common to both events.).</p>

<p>The event can be represented as a pair of integers <code>startTime</code> and <code>endTime</code> that represents a booking on the half-open interval <code>[startTime, endTime)</code>, the range of real numbers <code>x</code> such that <code>startTime &lt;= x &lt; endTime</code>.</p>

<p>Implement the <code>MyCalendar</code> class:</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>MyCalendar()</code> Initializes the calendar object.</li>
	<li><code>boolean book(int startTime, int endTime)</code> Returns <code>true</code> if the event can be added to the calendar successfully without causing a <strong>double booking</strong>. Otherwise, return <code>false</code> and do not add the event to the calendar.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input</strong>
[&quot;MyCalendar&quot;, &quot;book&quot;, &quot;book&quot;, &quot;book&quot;]
[[], [10, 20], [15, 25], [20, 30]]
<strong>Output</strong>
[null, true, false, true]

<strong>Explanation</strong>
MyCalendar myCalendar = new MyCalendar();
myCalendar.book(10, 20); // return True
myCalendar.book(15, 25); // return False, It can not be booked because time 15 is already booked by another event.
myCalendar.book(20, 30); // return True, The event can be booked, as the first event takes every time less than 20, but not including 20.</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= start &lt; end &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
	<li>At most <code>1000</code> calls will be made to <code>book</code>.</li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1: Ordered Set

We can use an ordered set to store the schedule. An ordered set can perform insert, delete, and search operations in $O(\log n)$ time. The elements in the ordered set are sorted by the $\textit{endTime}$ of the schedule in ascending order.

When calling the $\text{book}(start, end)$ method, we search for the first schedule in the ordered set with an end time greater than $\textit{start}$. If it exists and its start time is less than $\textit{end}$, it means there is a double booking, and we return $\text{false}$. Otherwise, we insert $\textit{end}$ as the key and $\textit{start}$ as the value into the ordered set and return $\text{true}$.

The time complexity is $O(n \times \log n)$, and the space complexity is $O(n)$. Here, $n$ is the number of schedules.

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
from sortedcontainers import SortedList


class MyCalendar:
    def __init__(self):
        self.arr = SortedList()

    def book(self, start, end):
        q1 = SortedList.bisect_right(self.arr, start)
        q2 = SortedList.bisect_left(self.arr, end)
        if q1 == q2 and q1 % 2 == 0:
            self.arr.add(start)
            self.arr.add(end)
            return True
        return False

# Your MyCalendar object will be instantiated and called as such:
# obj = MyCalendar()
# param_1 = obj.book(start,end)
```
