# [295. Find Median from Data Stream](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-median-from-data-stream)


## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>The <strong>median</strong> is the middle value in an ordered integer list. If the size of the list is even, there is no middle value, and the median is the mean of the two middle values.</p>

<ul>
	<li>For example, for <code>arr = [2,3,4]</code>, the median is <code>3</code>.</li>
	<li>For example, for <code>arr = [2,3]</code>, the median is <code>(2 + 3) / 2 = 2.5</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Implement the MedianFinder class:</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>MedianFinder()</code> initializes the <code>MedianFinder</code> object.</li>
	<li><code>void addNum(int num)</code> adds the integer <code>num</code> from the data stream to the data structure.</li>
	<li><code>double findMedian()</code> returns the median of all elements so far. Answers within <code>10<sup>-5</sup></code> of the actual answer will be accepted.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input</strong>
[&quot;MedianFinder&quot;, &quot;addNum&quot;, &quot;addNum&quot;, &quot;findMedian&quot;, &quot;addNum&quot;, &quot;findMedian&quot;]
[[], [1], [2], [], [3], []]
<strong>Output</strong>
[null, null, null, 1.5, null, 2.0]

<strong>Explanation</strong>
MedianFinder medianFinder = new MedianFinder();
medianFinder.addNum(1);    // arr = [1]
medianFinder.addNum(2);    // arr = [1, 2]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 1.5 (i.e., (1 + 2) / 2)
medianFinder.addNum(3);    // arr[1, 2, 3]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 2.0
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>-10<sup>5</sup> &lt;= num &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li>There will be at least one element in the data structure before calling <code>findMedian</code>.</li>
	<li>At most <code>5 * 10<sup>4</sup></code> calls will be made to <code>addNum</code> and <code>findMedian</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Follow up:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>If all integer numbers from the stream are in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>, how would you optimize your solution?</li>
	<li>If <code>99%</code> of all integer numbers from the stream are in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>, how would you optimize your solution?</li>
</ul>


### Solution

The invariant of the algorithm is two heaps, small and large, each represent half of the current list. The length of smaller half is kept to be n / 2 at all time and the length of the larger half is either n / 2 or n / 2 + 1 depend on n's parity.  
This way we only need to peek the two heaps' top number to calculate median.  
Any time before we add a new number, there are two scenarios, (total n numbers, k = n / 2):  
(1) length of (small, large) == (k, k)  
(2) length of (small, large) == (k, k + 1)  
After adding the number, total (n + 1) numbers, they will become:  
(1) length of (small, large) == (k, k + 1)  
(2) length of (small, large) == (k + 1, k + 1)  
Here we take the first scenario for example, we know the large will gain one more item and small will remain the same size, but we cannot just push the item into large. What we should do is we push the new number into small and pop the maximum item from small then push it into large (all the pop and push here are heappop and heappush). By doing this kind of operations for the two scenarios we can keep our invariant.  
Therefore to add a number, we have 3 O(log n) heap operations. Luckily the heapq provided us a function "heappushpop" which saves some time by combine two into one. The document says:  
Push item on the heap, then pop and return the smallest item from the heap. The combined action runs more efficiently than heappush() followed by a separate call to heappop().  
Alltogether, the add operation is O(logn), The findMedian operation is O(1).  
Note that the heapq in python is a min heap, thus we need to invert the values in the smaller half to mimic a "max heap".  

```python
from heapq import *
class MedianFinder:
    def __init__(self):
        self.maxheap = []  # the maxheaper half of the list, max heap (invert min-heap)
        self.minheap = []  # the minheapr half of the list, min heap

    def addNum(self, num):
        if len(self.maxheap) == len(self.minheap):
            heappush(self.minheap, -heappushpop(self.maxheap, -num))
        else:
            heappush(self.maxheap, -heappushpop(self.minheap, num))

    def findMedian(self):
        if len(self.maxheap) == len(self.minheap):
            return float(self.minheap[0] - self.maxheap[0]) / 2.0
        else:
            return float(self.minheap[0])
```
