# [72. Edit Distance](https://leetcode.com/problems/edit-distance)


## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>Given two strings <code>word1</code> and <code>word2</code>, return <em>the minimum number of operations required to convert <code>word1</code> to <code>word2</code></em>.</p>

<p>You have the following three operations permitted on a word:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Insert a character</li>
	<li>Delete a character</li>
	<li>Replace a character</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> word1 = &quot;horse&quot;, word2 = &quot;ros&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
horse -&gt; rorse (replace &#39;h&#39; with &#39;r&#39;)
rorse -&gt; rose (remove &#39;r&#39;)
rose -&gt; ros (remove &#39;e&#39;)
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> word1 = &quot;intention&quot;, word2 = &quot;execution&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 5
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
intention -&gt; inention (remove &#39;t&#39;)
inention -&gt; enention (replace &#39;i&#39; with &#39;e&#39;)
enention -&gt; exention (replace &#39;n&#39; with &#39;x&#39;)
exention -&gt; exection (replace &#39;n&#39; with &#39;c&#39;)
exection -&gt; execution (insert &#39;u&#39;)
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= word1.length, word2.length &lt;= 500</code></li>
	<li><code>word1</code> and <code>word2</code> consist of lowercase English letters.</li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->


### Thought process:
Given two strings, we're tasked with finding the minimum number of transformations we need to make to arrive with equivalent strings. From the get-go, there doesn't seem to be any way around trying all possibilities, and in this, possibilities refers to inserting, deleting, or replacing a character. Recursion is usually a good choice for trying all possilbilities.
Whenever we write recursive functions, we'll need some way to terminate, or else we'll end up overflowing the stack via infinite recursion. With strings, the natural state to keep track of is the index. We'll need two indexes, one for word1 and one for word2. Now we just need to handle our base cases, and recursive cases.  
 What happens when we're done with either word? Some thought will tell you that the minimum number of transformations is simply to insert the rest of the other word. This is our base case. What about when we're not done with either string? We'll either match the currently indexed characters in both strings, or mismatch. In the first case, we don't incur any penalty, and we can continue to compare the rest of the strings by recursing on the rest of both strings. In the case of a mismatch, we either insert, delete, or replace. To recap:  
base case: word1 = "" or word2 = "" => return length of other string  
recursive case: word1[0] == word2[0] => recurse on word1[1:] and word2[1:]  
recursive case: word1[0] != word2[0] => recurse by inserting, deleting, or replacing  

### Brute Force Solution(TLE)
```python
class Solution:
   @cache
   def minDistance(self, word1, word2):
       """Naive recursive solution"""
       if not word1 and not word2:
           return 0
       if not word1:
           return len(word2)
       if not word2:
           return len(word1)
       if word1[0] == word2[0]:
           return self.minDistance(word1[1:], word2[1:])
       insert =  self.minDistance(word1, word2[1:])
       delete =  self.minDistance(word1[1:], word2)
       replace = self.minDistance(word1[1:], word2[1:])
       return 1 + min(insert, replace, delete)
```


### DP Solution(Accepted)
We can also use a 2D array to do essentially the same thing as the dictionary of cached values. When we do this, we build up  from smaller subproblems to bigger 
subproblems (bottom-up). In this case, since we are no longer "recurring" in the traditional sense, we initialize our 2D table with base constraints. 
The first row and column of the table has known values since if one string is empty, we simply add the length of the non-empty string since that is the 
minimum number of edits necessary to arrive at equivalent strings. For both the memoized and dynamic programming , the runtime is O(mn) and the space complexity 
is O(mn) where m and n are the lengths of word1 and word2, respectively.

```python
class Solution:
   def minDistance(self, word1, word2):
       """Dynamic programming solution"""
       m = len(word1)
       n = len(word2)
       table = [[0] * (n + 1) for _ in range(m + 1)]
       for i in range(m + 1):
           table[i][0] = i
       for j in range(n + 1):
           table[0][j] = j
       for i in range(1, m + 1):
           for j in range(1, n + 1):
               if word1[i - 1] == word2[j - 1]:
                   table[i][j] = table[i - 1][j - 1]
               else:
                   table[i][j] = 1 + min(table[i - 1][j], table[i][j - 1], table[i - 1][j - 1])
       return table[-1][-1]
```
